---
source: https://maoperatingsystem.atlassian.net/spaces/DataModel/pages/189988865/Practical+Data+Reference+Architecture+for+Data+Governance+at+Scale
confluence_id: 189988865
space: DataModel
version: 58
retrieved: 2026-01-23T12:35:25.268984
format: xhtml
content_hash: e166d46f41d624cf537c08a5958888f3
macro_structured_macro: 13
macro_image: 0
macro_link: 12
---
<ac:layout>
<ac:layout-section ac:type="fixed-width" ac:breakout-mode="default">
<ac:layout-cell>
<h1>About this Document</h1>
<p>This document provides an outline to a proposed reference architecture for implementing data governance at scale for large organizations with highly fragmented business processes and data flows, such as large financial institutions with multiple business lines, individual product-aligned platforms, and centralized functions like finance and risk management. This document forms an introduction to a series of more detailed design documents that cover each component of the architecture in detail which can also be found as links below.</p>
</ac:layout-cell>
</ac:layout-section>
<ac:layout-section ac:type="two_equal" ac:breakout-mode="default">
<ac:layout-cell>
<h2>Table of Contents</h2>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="info" ac:schema-version="1" ac:macro-id="1b66081c-63b9-4c14-bf2b-fb10ae989df5"><ac:rich-text-body>
<p>This section outlines the contents of this document.</p>
</ac:rich-text-body></ac:structured-macro>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="toc" ac:schema-version="1" data-layout="default" ac:local-id="a4982d46-a1c4-438e-8bc9-96d60613cd0f" ac:macro-id="00399806-9dde-4d71-b2e6-2df9443b7773"><ac:parameter ac:name="style">none</ac:parameter></ac:structured-macro>
</ac:layout-cell>
<ac:layout-cell>
<h2>Data Governance at Scale</h2>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="info" ac:schema-version="1" ac:macro-id="fe099ebc-0ece-4e1a-be44-2f4ee4b37717"><ac:rich-text-body>
<p>This section outlines the related documents in this series.</p>
</ac:rich-text-body></ac:structured-macro>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="children" ac:schema-version="2" data-layout="default" ac:local-id="d5943546-c50d-452b-bb72-cc9817e33249" ac:macro-id="25f198232c472f29a60f9970afac803071fad5269a49dbb54f00b67e720eb1b9"><ac:parameter ac:name="all">true</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="depth">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="allChildren">true</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="first">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="style" /><ac:parameter ac:name="sortAndReverse" /></ac:structured-macro>
</ac:layout-cell>
</ac:layout-section>
<ac:layout-section ac:type="fixed-width" ac:breakout-mode="default">
<ac:layout-cell>
<h1>Reference Architecture for Data Governance at Scale</h1>
<h2>Overview </h2>
<h3>Assumptions</h3>
<p>This reference design for Data Governance at Scale is based on the following underlying input assumptions:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Given the scale of potential operations, all components should be able to support &ldquo;direct&rdquo; and &quot;federated&rdquo; implementation approaches</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h2>Data Governance Views - Technical vs Business </h2>
<p>Data Governance exists at the intersection of technology and business.  Technology systems move and transform data around and environment, while business capabilities create data and derive value from its use.  As such, it is important that we can represent data through these two lenses. This split personal is represented throughout the architecture and data model.</p>
<h3>6-Layer Data Governance Architecture Model</h3>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="excerpt" ac:schema-version="1" data-layout="default" ac:local-id="47975d57-b170-45a4-a171-8af43e5a5147" ac:macro-id="1d517387244909f62a83644e757928271528b3641d57e99772463a2d6087c067"><ac:parameter ac:name="name">Architecture</ac:parameter><ac:rich-text-body>
<p>
<ac:placeholder>Type or paste something here to turn it into an excerpt.</ac:placeholder>
</p>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="drawio" ac:schema-version="1" data-layout="default" ac:local-id="91fad490-8e98-499c-8409-3bbf69ba748c" ac:macro-id="6ba7e18b-589a-415e-9177-d2d311fe3c19"><ac:parameter ac:name="mVer">2</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="zoom">1</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="simple">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="inComment">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="custContentId">192413697</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="pageId">189988865</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="lbox">1</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="diagramDisplayName">Untitled Diagram-1754573161655.drawio</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="contentVer">9</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="revision">9</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="baseUrl">https://maoperatingsystem.atlassian.net/wiki</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="diagramName">Untitled Diagram-1754573161655.drawio</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="pCenter">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="width">858.5</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="height">461</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="links" /><ac:parameter ac:name="tbstyle" /></ac:structured-macro>
</ac:rich-text-body></ac:structured-macro>
<table data-table-width="1800" data-layout="default" ac:local-id="7c86f53b-64d4-4fda-80c0-5bce4256b3a9">
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 58.0px;" />
<col style="width: 77.0px;" />
<col style="width: 511.0px;" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th>
<p>Layer</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>Name</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>Description</p>
</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>
<p>6</p>
</th>
<td>
<p>Data Governance Oversight</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Executive accountability and regulatory compliance governance</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>
<p>5</p>
</th>
<td>
<p>Data Governance Policy</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Codified data standards and enforceable governance rules</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>
<p>4</p>
</th>
<td>
<p>Data Governance Operating Model</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Roles, processes, councils, and stewardship execution</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>
<p>2</p>
</th>
<td>
<p>Data Governance Metadata Management</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>The Data Governance Metadata Management layer is responsible for centrally maintaining all data governance metadata, which enables data governance at scale within an organization  The metadata repository is a centralized metadata management store that provides key data management capabilities for this critical data, including version control, rollback, change management, and auditing through a standard set of authenticated API services  Ideally, all data changes to the metadata repository are facilitated through the orchestration capability to ensure compliance with policy and entitlements control.</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>
<p>2</p>
</th>
<td>
<p>Data Governance Functional Capabilities</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="excerpt-include" ac:schema-version="1" ac:local-id="255c178c-7159-4191-940f-d8818ea28b84" ac:macro-id="88898c47-e913-4169-b297-f983f66077dc"><ac:parameter ac:name=""><ac:link /></ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="name">L2</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="nopanel">true</ac:parameter></ac:structured-macro>
</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th>
<p>1</p>
</th>
<td>
<p>Business Operating Platforms</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="excerpt-include" ac:schema-version="1" ac:local-id="7be847de-f234-42b4-b45a-62e4cd5000d4" ac:macro-id="4d4abf1e-4738-4035-aa5c-bba7c1b58331"><ac:parameter ac:name=""><ac:link /></ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="name">L1</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="nopanel">true</ac:parameter></ac:structured-macro>
</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h2>Layer 1: Business &amp; Data Services</h2>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="excerpt" ac:schema-version="1" data-layout="default" ac:local-id="a722c610-d471-4482-a6de-8c681dabce25" ac:macro-id="6909b6d5ee926afbefe98e54055ed9b85fdb36266ac80c4944568b9f12ac1dfb"><ac:parameter ac:name="name">L1</ac:parameter><ac:rich-text-body>
<p>The Business and Data Services layer encompasses all the underlying applications, technologies, and services utilized in an organization's day-to-day data-driven operations. For the purposes of this document, we further categorize these into three categories: Business Operating Systems, Business Reporting &amp; Consolidation Systems, and Reference Data/Master Data Systems. </p>
</ac:rich-text-body></ac:structured-macro>
<h3>Business Operating Systems</h3>
<p>Business Operating Systems provide the core functional capabilities that enable the day-to-day business operations. This can include the front office (i.e., sales and trading), settlement, marketing, finance, risk management, etc. These systems will tend to create data records themselves as authoritative sources or consume data from others to derive or create additional data. </p>
<h3>Business Reporting and Consolidation Systems</h3>
<p>Business Reporting and Data Consolidation Systems provide additional data consolidation, aggregation, and analysis capabilities to complement business operating systems. In general, these do not create underlying data but often transform data from multiple sources to meet a specific business output need.</p>
<h3>Reference Data / Master Data  Systems</h3>
<p>Reference Data/Master Data Systems provide an authoritative source for standard reference and other data used to establish common linkages and descriptive data across multiple business lines and products.   These services often include key identification, classification, and cross-referencing information.</p>
<h2>Layer 2 - Data Governance Functional Capabilities</h2>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="excerpt" ac:schema-version="1" data-layout="default" ac:local-id="f2bab63f-9133-4b91-9132-64fa543585c5" ac:macro-id="6da9c4e1bb18266be4c6c75cbfc2b2840cdec72adadee9731fc7f7cfd92c5c61"><ac:parameter ac:name="name">L2</ac:parameter><ac:rich-text-body>
<p>The Data Governance Functional Capabilities layer provides all the key elements that enable a complete and sustainable data governance capability across an organization at scale. In general, these capabilities all collectively contribute to and leverage data governance metadata in the metadata repository.   When operated at scale, many of these capabilities need to be provided through a variety of centralized and federated approaches</p>
</ac:rich-text-body></ac:structured-macro>
<h4>.Data Management Portal / End User Experience</h4>
<p>The Data Management Portal capability provides a unified interface that enables all business users to interact with the data governance suite of capabilities based on their specific data governance role. In general, front-end capabilities are provided through API integrations to the metadata repository (read) and workflow orchestration capability (create/update/delete).</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>End Users in the Data Management Portal READ data governance data from the metadata repository.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>End Users in the Data Management Portal CREATE/UPDATE/DELETE data governance data (via orchestration).</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h4>API Capability</h4>
<p>The API capability provides a set of internal and external methods for retrieving and interacting with data within the metadata manager, based on the current access control roles specified in the roles and responsibilities metadata.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>The API Framework handles all READ operations from any internal or external capability.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>API Function handles all CREATE/UPDATE/DELETE operations from the orchestration capability.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h4>Search Capability</h4>
<p>The Search capability is an extension of the API services that provides additional high-performance metadata mining and search capabilities, enabling the trawling and retrieval of relevant information from large quantities of data managed within the core metadata management.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>The Search capability handles all <em>bulk</em> READ operations from internal or external capabilities.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h4>Orchestration Capability</h4>
<p>The Orchestration framework enables policy- and rules-driven metadata management capabilities for all data governance activities. All data governance metadata changes should be facilitated through the orchestration framework. The orchestration framework is responsible for conflict resolution, audit trails, and other metadata change management functions.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>The Orchestration framework receives requests to CREATE/UPDATE/DELETE metadata from other components and implements and performs these actions within the Metadata repository.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h4>Data Inventory Capability</h4>
<p>See <ac:link ac:card-appearance="inline">
<ri:page ri:content-title="Practical Data: Data Governance At Scale - Data Inventory Capability and Metadata Store" ri:version-at-save="34" />
<ac:link-body>Practical Data: Data Governance At Scale - Data Inventory Capability and Metadata Store</ac:link-body>
</ac:link> </p>
<p>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="excerpt-include" ac:schema-version="1" ac:local-id="c288c2a3-0519-474b-8cc9-418887c6ff3d" ac:macro-id="85311370-0855-4707-bc1a-8148a37f0a75"><ac:parameter ac:name=""><ac:link><ri:page ri:content-title="Practical Data: Data Governance At Scale - Data Inventory Capability and Metadata Store" ri:version-at-save="34" /></ac:link></ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="name">about</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="nopanel">true</ac:parameter></ac:structured-macro>
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Data Inventory tools CREATE/UPDATE/DELETE Data Inventory data (via orchestration)</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h4>Data Lineage Capability</h4>
<p>See <ac:link ac:card-appearance="inline">
<ri:page ri:content-title="Practical Data: Data Governance at Scale - Data Lineage Capability &amp; Metadata Store" ri:version-at-save="40" />
<ac:link-body>Practical Data: Data Governance at Scale - Data Lineage Capability &amp; Metadata Store</ac:link-body>
</ac:link> </p>
<p>The Data Lineage (Ingestion) capability provides an automated approach for ingesting data related to the configuration of each operating platform and repository, as well as data-at-rest and data-in-transit, to capture the underlying system specifications of data within the current technology environment and how it flows between systems  Individual <em>Data Lineage Detectors</em> connect to different platforms to automate the collection of lineage information  Further <em>Data Lineage Enrichers</em> can further enrich the captured data based on business rules and other content to enhance the systematically discovered information with additional value-added details (i.e., logical lineage), improving the usefulness of the discovered data  Manual data lineage and mapping can also be performed by users (via the Data Management Portal) to enhance the captured data through the Portal further.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Data Lineage tools CREATE/UPDATE/DELETE Data Lineage data (via orchestration).</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h4>Data Profiling Capability</h4>
<p>The Data Profiling (Ingestion) capability enables the ingestion of underlying information about the classification and content of data within the underlying data systems  Individual <em>Data Profile Detectors</em> enable the connection to various business systems, allowing for the automatic evaluation and classification of data content  Manual data profiling can also be performed by users (via the Data Management Portal) to enhance the captured data through the Portal further.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Data Profiling Tools CREATE/UPDATE/DELETE Data Catalog data (via orchestration).</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h4>Workflow &amp; Task Management Capability</h4>
<p>The Workflow &amp; Task Management Capability enables the assignment and coordinate of work across teams, people, and processes that result from operating data governance at scale  Examples of work that needs to be managed around the organisation include the coordination and resolution of Data Definition Gaps, Data Lineage Gaps, Data Quality Issues, TRansaction Monitoring issues etc  The Workflow and task management capability leverages the data governance metadata to decide how to assign and coordinate work.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Workflow &amp; Task Management capabilities READ from </p>
</li>
</ul>
<h4>Data Quality Capability</h4>
<p>The Data Quality capability enables the evaluation and recording of the current data quality performance of live data against the latest data quality requirements. Resulting data quality issues are tracked as work items in the work queues. The data quality capability is authoritative for generating and managing <em>Data Quality Issues</em>
<strong>.</strong>
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>The Data Quality capability READs data inventory data from the Data Inventory.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The Data Quality capability READs data quality rules from the Data Quality metadata repository.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>The Data Quality capability executes the quality tests against the live data in business systems OR provides a mechanism for federated data Quality Engines to report Data Quality Issues</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<span style="color: rgb(255,86,48);">The Data Quality capability CREATEs/UPDATEs work items (via orchestration).</span>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h4>Data Tracing Capability</h4>
<p>The Data Tracing enables the comparison of the current virtual definition of the working environment, as described by the data governance data in the metadata repository, with the true live environment based on the actual data content at rest and in transit. The Data Tracing capability is authoritative for generating and managing <em>Data Tracing Issues.</em>
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Data Tracing Tools READ from Data Catalog and Data Tracing.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Data Tracing Tools READ from Business Operating Systems.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Data Tracing Tools CREATE/UPDATE work items (via orchestration).</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h4>Transaction Monitoring Capability</h4>
<p>Transaction Monitoring enables the analysis of large volumes of transactional data in real-time as it moves through the system, to identify unusual patterns, process breaks, or breaches of established business and compliance rules.  The Transaction Monitoring capability is authoritative for generating and managing <em>Transaction Monitoring Issues.</em>
</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Transaction Monitoring Tools READ from Business Operating Platforms and Data Catalog.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Transaction Monitoring Tools CREATE/UPDATE alerts and work items (via orchestration).</p>
</li>
</ul>
<h4>Reporting and Analytics Capability</h4>
<p>The Reporting and Analytics capability enables the in-depth analysis and long-term trending of data governance status across the organisation as a business intelligence capability  It leverages a combination of organizational metadata, operating model metadata, data inventory metadata, data quality results data, and others to establish long-term trend metrics across various dimensions  Ideally, the reporting and Analytics capability should only be &quot;reporting&quot; on data from other capabilities.</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Reporting capabilities: READ data from Data Governance Metadata. </p>
</li>
</ul>
<h3>Layer 3 - Data Governance Metadata Management</h3>
<p>The Data Governance Metadata Management layer is responsible for centrally maintaining all data governance metadata, which enables data governance at scale within an organization  The metadata repository is a centralized metadata management store that provides key data management capabilities for this critical data, including version control, rollback, change management, and auditing through a standard set of authenticated API services  Ideally, all data changes to the metadata repository are facilitated through the orchestration capability to ensure compliance with policy and entitlements control.</p>
<p>See <ac:link ac:card-appearance="inline">
<ri:page ri:content-title="Practical Data: Data Governance At Scale - Data Governance Metadata Repository &amp; Data Model" ri:version-at-save="27" />
<ac:link-body>Practical Data: Data Governance At Scale - Data Governance Metadata Model</ac:link-body>
</ac:link> </p>
<p>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="excerpt-include" ac:schema-version="1" ac:local-id="38bb477d-fcb2-4e56-a925-d29c47274ccd" ac:macro-id="6c1fb05d-f718-426d-bf08-ffcb9bfd14d7"><ac:parameter ac:name=""><ac:link><ri:page ri:content-title="Practical Data: Data Governance At Scale - Data Governance Metadata Repository &amp; Data Model" ri:version-at-save="27" /></ac:link></ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="name">data-model</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="nopanel">true</ac:parameter></ac:structured-macro>
</p>
<h4>Business &amp; Organization Metadata</h4>
<p>Business &amp; Organisation metadata describes the organisation&rsquo;s structure, functions, processes, people, and purposes/outputs. It supports contextual understanding of how data relates to core business operations and strategic outcomes.</p>
<h4>Data Policy, Roles, and Operating Model Metadata</h4>
<p>Defines the governance framework, including policies, organizational roles, responsibilities, and stewardship models. It also captures workflow and orchestration rules for task routing, approvals, escalations, and SLA tracking, enabling automation across tools and teams.</p>
<h4>Technology Systems Metadata</h4>
<p>Technology systems metadata describes the systems and applications used by business functions to store, process, and deliver data. It often supports technology dependency mapping and system-to-system lineage (but typically not data-level lineage).</p>
<h4>Data Inventory Metadata</h4>
<p>See <ac:link ac:card-appearance="inline">
<ri:page ri:content-title="Practical Data: Data Governance At Scale - Data Inventory Capability and Metadata Store" ri:version-at-save="34" />
<ac:link-body>Practical Data: Data Governance At Scale - Data Inventory Capability and Metadata Store</ac:link-body>
</ac:link> </p>
<p>Data Inventory metadata contains the master list of all individual endpoints/data elements across the organisation and additional information, such as name, description, sensitivity (PII vs. Sensitive, etc.), criticality (CDE, etc.), structure (i.e., data hierarchy/scheme), and other descriptive information about the data content (e.g., critical data elements or CDEs) for each data element across the organization  Dictionary information can often contain one or more of the business, logical, and physical data inventories.</p>
<h4>Data Lineage Metadata</h4>
<p>Describes how data is stored, processed, transferred, and transformed from endpoint to endpoint across systems, enabling end-to-end traceability and impact analysis  In general, data lineage does not describe the business purpose of the data, but rather how it moves and changes throughout the environment  Ideally, data lineage is capable of representing the lowest level of detail, encompassing both external system-to-system endpoint flows and transformations, as well as internal within-application flows/transformations, and then aggregating this information into logical data lineage and system-to-system lineage.</p>
<h4>Data Quality Metadata</h4>
<p>Defines the required standards for data accuracy, timeliness, and completeness to ensure business processes operate reliably and regulatory expectations are met  Ideally, data quality is defined at the intersection between a data element and a purpose&mdash;i.e., different data quality standards can apply to the same element depending on the individual purpose.</p>
<h3>Layer 3: Operating Model</h3>
<p>The Operating Model layer defines the organizational structures, roles, and processes that underpin effective data governance. This layer ensures that governance is not just a set of policies or technologies, but a living, operationalized discipline embedded in day-to-day business activities. Key elements include:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Clearly defined roles and responsibilities for data ownership, stewardship, and custodianship.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Governance councils and working groups that provide oversight, decision-making, and escalation pathways.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Standardized processes for data issue management, change control, and exception handling.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Mechanisms for cross-functional collaboration, ensuring alignment between business, technology, and compliance teams.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>A mature operating model fosters a culture of accountability and continuous improvement, enabling the organization to adapt to evolving regulatory requirements and business priorities.</p>
<h3>Layer 4: Policy</h3>
<p>The Policy layer establishes the formal rules, standards, and guidelines that govern the management and use of data across the enterprise. These policies are designed to ensure that data is accurate, secure, and used in a manner consistent with regulatory obligations and organizational values. Key components include:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Data classification and handling standards outline the procedures for managing and protecting various types of data.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Access and entitlement policies specify who can view, modify, or share data.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Data retention and destruction guidelines, ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory mandates.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Quality and integrity standards set expectations for data accuracy, completeness, and timeliness.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>Effective policy frameworks are regularly reviewed and updated to reflect changes in the regulatory landscape and business strategy. They provide the foundation for consistent, repeatable governance practices across all business units and geographies.</p>
<h3>Layer 5: Oversight</h3>
<p>The Oversight layer represents the highest level of governance accountability within the organization. This layer is typically embodied by executive leadership, board committees, or designated governance authorities who are responsible for setting the strategic direction for data governance and ensuring that the organization meets its regulatory and ethical obligations. Key responsibilities include:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Establishing the vision and objectives for data governance, aligned with the organization's overall strategy.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Approving and monitoring the implementation of governance policies, operating models, and technology investments.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Overseeing compliance with regulatory requirements and responding to external audits or inquiries.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Championing a culture of data-driven decision-making and ethical data use throughout the organization.</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p>Strong oversight ensures that data governance remains a strategic priority, with clear accountability for outcomes and a commitment to continuous improvement.</p>
<p />
<h1>Logical Data Models</h1>
<p>Outlined below are reference logical data models for each key dataset involved in the ecosystem. These reference data models show the <em>minimum set of  data elements </em>
</p>
<table data-table-width="1800" data-layout="align-start" ac:local-id="2ef6e199-9c64-4f25-b3c2-98a955c80bf5">
<colgroup>
<col />
<col style="width: 173.0px;" />
<col style="width: 356.0px;" />
<col style="width: 152.0px;" />
<col style="width: 169.0px;" />
<col style="width: 210.0px;" />
<col style="width: 424.0px;" />
<col style="width: 306.0px;" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="numberingColumn" />
<th>
<p>
<strong>Logical Model</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Description</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Component of Record</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Primary Identifier/ Cardinality</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Sub Model</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Sub Model Description</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Key Concepts</strong>
</p>
</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">1</td>
<td>
<p>Business &amp; Organization</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>Metadata Repository</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>BusID </p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<ul>
<li>
<p>People </p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Divisions, </p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Departments, </p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Teams </p>
</li>
<li>
<p>People</p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Processes</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Outcomes</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Processes</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Activities</p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p>
<span style="background-color: rgb(253,208,236);">Need to think through Data Provider vs Data Consumer aspects here!</span>
</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">2</td>
<td>
<p>Data Policy, Roles, and Operating Model</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>Metadata Repository</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Roles</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Actors</p>
</li>
</ul>
<p />
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">3</td>
<td rowspan="2">
<p>Data Inventory</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="2">
<p>The Data Inventory is managed within the Data Governance metadata repository and contains all information related to the systemic and logical definition of data elements within the environment.</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Metadata Repository</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>bdeID</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Business Data Inventory</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>The Logical Data Inventory contains all information relating the the logical definition (ie, business terms) of data at rest within the organisation.</p>
<p>Business Data Elements (bdeID) are the lowest level of granularity in a business data inventory hierarchy.</p>
</td>
<td>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Business (Critical) Data Elements </p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Bus. Data Models</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Bus. Data Concepts</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Bus. Data Elements</p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Data Products</p>
</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">4</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>pd1ID</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Technical Data Inventory</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>The Technical Data Inventory contains all information related to the technical definition of data at rest and visualized within the organization.</p>
<p>Physical Data Elements [pdeID] are the lowest level of granularity in the technical data inventory hierarchy.</p>
</td>
<td>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Physical Data Element</p>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Application</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Component</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Schema</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Container</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Physical Data Element (pdeID)</p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">5</td>
<td>
<p>Data Lineage</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>The Data Lineage data is managed within the data governance metadata repository and describes how data flows throughout the organisation in the form of data dependencies.</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Metadata Repository</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>linID</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Business Data Lineage</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Business Data lineage is derived from Technical Data lineage and leverages the business logical data definitions to describe how business data depends on data.</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">6</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>Technical Data Lineage</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Technical Data lineage describes how systems move data within a system and across systems, as well as the dependencies between them. I.e., physical data attribute ABC depends on physical data attributes UVW and physical data attribute XYC.</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">7</td>
<td rowspan="2">
<p>Data Quality</p>
</td>
<td rowspan="2">
<p>Data Quality (rules) </p>
</td>
<td rowspan="2">
<p>Metadata Repository</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>bdqID</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Business Data Quality (Rules)</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>The Business Data Quality rules define the data quality requirements (content, timelines) of data in the business logical models.</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">8</td>
<td>
<p>tdqID</p>
<p>(bdqID x sysID)</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Technical Data Quality Rules</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>The Technical Data Quality rules are derived from the business data quality rules and defined data quality requirements of data within a specific target system.</p>
<p>ie, if the same logical business element exists in multiple systems, then multiple instances of technical data quality rules will exist for the same business data quality rule</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">9</td>
<td>
<p>Data Quality Issues</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Data Quality Issues are individual &ldquo;errors&rdquo; with the current dataset that need remediation.  Data quality issues are detected at a physical level but need to be &ldquo;understood&rdquo; at a logical level.</p>
<p>Depending on how DQ issues are generated, a single DQ issue may represent multiple issues across multiple fields on numerous records in a specific system. Usually, this would be a list of errors on a single record or the same mistake on multiple records.</p>
<p>
<em>Note: Multiple issues may result (across different systems) from a single root cause, depending on the impact and spread of the &ldquo;root cause issue&rdquo;</em>
</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Data Quality Capability</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>dqiID</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">10</td>
<td>
<p>Data Tracing Issues</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Data Tracing Issues are individual &ldquo;errors&rdquo; with the current flow that need investigation.  Data Tracing errors can be a combination of issues with the current lineage metadata or issues in the way data is moving through the systems.</p>
<p>Depending on how DT issues are generated, a single DT issue may represent multiple issues across multiple fields on numerous records in a specific system</p>
<p>
<em>Note: Multiple issues may result (across different systems) from a single root cause, depending on the impact and spread of the &ldquo;root cause issue.&rdquo;</em>
</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Data Tracing Capability</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>dtiID</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">11</td>
<td>
<p>Transaction Monitoring Issues</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>Transaction Monitoring Capability</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="drawio" ac:schema-version="1" data-layout="default" ac:local-id="a1ced1c2-1f5a-4c03-b763-f0117d8c04d8" ac:macro-id="fd33fe5a-3145-4f1e-bf0f-a38d5bc05063"><ac:parameter ac:name="mVer">2</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="zoom">1</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="simple">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="inComment">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="custContentId">198639628</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="pageId">189988865</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="lbox">1</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="diagramDisplayName">Untitled Diagram-1755190173395.drawio</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="contentVer">1</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="revision">1</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="baseUrl">https://maoperatingsystem.atlassian.net/wiki</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="diagramName">Untitled Diagram-1755190173395.drawio</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="pCenter">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="width">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="height">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="links" /><ac:parameter ac:name="tbstyle" /></ac:structured-macro>
</ac:layout-cell>
</ac:layout-section>
</ac:layout>