---
source: https://maoperatingsystem.atlassian.net/spaces/DataModel/pages/205422624/Practical+Data+Data+Governance+At+Scale+-+Data+Governance+Metadata+Repository+Data+Model
confluence_id: 205422624
space: DataModel
version: 28
retrieved: 2026-01-23T12:35:39.932115
format: xhtml
content_hash: 3fd0aa95227e0f876e5dcbd6dc6d1c8c
macro_structured_macro: 8
macro_image: 0
macro_link: 6
---
<ac:layout>
<ac:layout-section ac:type="fixed-width" ac:breakout-mode="default">
<ac:layout-cell>
<p>About this Document</p>
<p>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="excerpt-include" ac:schema-version="1" ac:local-id="5b092549-eb19-467f-98dc-474c18e94e72" ac:macro-id="56b4054d-84e9-482e-9730-e20061eeef27"><ac:parameter ac:name=""><ac:link><ri:page ri:content-title="Practical Data: Data Governance At Scale - Data Inventory Capability and Metadata Store" ri:version-at-save="35" /></ac:link></ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="name">data-gov-intro</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="nopanel">true</ac:parameter></ac:structured-macro>
</p>
<p>Data Governance Metadata Repository is responsible for storing all Data Governance Metadata Model within a single location for use by other components.  This section also includes an overview of the complete Data Governance Metadata Data Model.</p>
</ac:layout-cell>
</ac:layout-section>
<ac:layout-section ac:type="two_equal" ac:breakout-mode="default">
<ac:layout-cell>
<h1>Table of Contents</h1>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="info" ac:schema-version="1" ac:macro-id="6f361621-355a-4b1a-bc62-f0b8e0249b6a"><ac:rich-text-body>
<p>This section lists the information in this document.</p>
</ac:rich-text-body></ac:structured-macro>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="toc" ac:schema-version="1" data-layout="default" ac:local-id="1f9f470b-a13e-4926-92bf-e956cea67f05" ac:macro-id="076d3444-42ce-4ce7-8e0a-e2921ce149b8"><ac:parameter ac:name="style">none</ac:parameter></ac:structured-macro>
</ac:layout-cell>
<ac:layout-cell>
<h1>Data Governance at Scale</h1>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="info" ac:schema-version="1" ac:macro-id="ef2945fa-207f-4e52-9053-dc43e37b9de4"><ac:rich-text-body>
<p>This section lists other documents available in this series.</p>
</ac:rich-text-body></ac:structured-macro>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="children" ac:schema-version="2" data-layout="default" ac:local-id="286111b5-4bcb-4ac7-ab65-ca9da1d9a3ef" ac:macro-id="6739520903b5aa9ea2c2950c4a9725d92a0ed309be2c5229f77447c352223ab1"><ac:parameter ac:name="all">true</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="depth">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="allChildren">true</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="page"><ac:link><ri:page ri:content-title="Practical Data: Reference Architecture for Data Governance at Scale" ri:version-at-save="58" /></ac:link></ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="first">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="style" /><ac:parameter ac:name="sortAndReverse" /></ac:structured-macro>
</ac:layout-cell>
</ac:layout-section>
<ac:layout-section ac:type="fixed-width" ac:breakout-mode="default">
<ac:layout-cell>
<h1>Data Governance Metadata Data Model Design</h1>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="info" ac:schema-version="1" ac:macro-id="59cc8eb9-8080-46b4-bd65-b6969eb9930c"><ac:rich-text-body>
<p>
<em>Note: All Data model designs are included for illustration purposes only and are styled as a graph database with nodes and relationships.  This is provided for convenience only, to define a reference architecture for data governance at scale, and does not necessitate a specific data storage method, database technology, or implementation design.  See </em>
<ac:link ac:card-appearance="inline">
<ri:page ri:content-title="Practical Data: Data Governance at Scale - Conventions" ri:version-at-save="2" />
<ac:link-body>Practical Data: Data Governance at Scale - Conventions</ac:link-body>
</ac:link> </p>
</ac:rich-text-body></ac:structured-macro>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="excerpt" ac:schema-version="1" data-layout="default" ac:local-id="3b38a08e-7d93-432d-9482-e817a3336463" ac:macro-id="ab6ba3ddd92be49f356ce72b65433eec4dc2f40f331f20e3f817505d43d783ac"><ac:parameter ac:name="name">data-model</ac:parameter><ac:rich-text-body>
<ac:structured-macro ac:name="drawio" ac:schema-version="1" data-layout="default" ac:local-id="f38e620e-d381-4150-98f9-6c46dc869e17" ac:macro-id="8eca63fa-d053-433c-8410-9ca34f9e59da"><ac:parameter ac:name="mVer">2</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="zoom">1</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="simple">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="inComment">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="custContentId">203980847</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="pageId">189988865</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="lbox">1</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="diagramDisplayName">Untitled Diagram-1755630924441.drawio</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="contentVer">5</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="revision">5</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="baseUrl">https://maoperatingsystem.atlassian.net/wiki</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="diagramName">Untitled Diagram-1755630924441.drawio</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="pCenter">0</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="width">1320</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="height">715.5</ac:parameter><ac:parameter ac:name="links" /><ac:parameter ac:name="tbstyle" /></ac:structured-macro>
<p>
<ac:placeholder>Type or paste something here to turn it into an excerpt.</ac:placeholder>
</p>
</ac:rich-text-body></ac:structured-macro>
<h2>Data Design Standards</h2>
<p>To articulate a reference data model design, we have established the following standards.</p>
<ol start="1">
<li>
<p> All elements of the data model will be associated with one capability, i.e., INVENTORY, LINEAGE, ORG, etc.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>All elements of the data model will be associated with one of two views: TECHNICAL or BUSINESS. </p>
</li>
<li>
<p>We use the term <strong>Information Set</strong> to describe related information about an object stored in the metadata repository based on the information's purpose and often aligned to the capability.  Some capabilities have multiple Information Sets. Information sets can be associated with objects and relationships</p>
</li>
</ol>
<h2>Logical Data Model</h2>
<h3>Business &amp; Organization Metadata</h3>
<p>Business &amp; Organisation metadata describes the organisation&rsquo;s structure, functions, processes, people, and purposes/outputs. It supports contextual understanding of how data relates to core business operations and strategic outcomes.</p>
<p>To establish a recommended reference data governance design, we have identified a three-level hierarchy of elements that can include any number of levels within the organisational hierarchy. </p>
</ac:layout-cell>
</ac:layout-section>
<ac:layout-section ac:type="two_equal" ac:breakout-mode="default">
<ac:layout-cell>
<p>term</p>
</ac:layout-cell>
<ac:layout-cell>
<p />
</ac:layout-cell>
</ac:layout-section>
<ac:layout-section ac:type="fixed-width" ac:breakout-mode="default">
<ac:layout-cell>
<h3>Data Policy, Roles, and Operating Model Metadata</h3>
<p>Defines the governance framework, including policies, organizational roles, responsibilities, and stewardship models. It also captures workflow and orchestration rules for task routing, approvals, escalations, and SLA tracking, enabling automation across tools and teams.</p>
<h3>Technology Systems Metadata</h3>
<p>Technology systems metadata describes the systems and applications used by business functions to store, process, and deliver data. It often supports technology dependency mapping and system-to-system lineage (but typically not data-level lineage).</p>
<h3>Data Inventory Data Model</h3>
<p>See <ac:link ac:card-appearance="inline">
<ri:page ri:content-title="Practical Data: Data Governance At Scale - Data Inventory Capability and Metadata Store" ri:version-at-save="35" />
<ac:link-body>Practical Data: Data Governance At Scale - Data Inventory Capability and Metadata Store</ac:link-body>
</ac:link> </p>
<p>Data Inventory metadata contains the master list of all individual endpoints/data elements across the organisation and additional information, such as name, description, sensitivity (PII vs. Sensitive, etc.), criticality (CDE, etc.), structure (i.e., data hierarchy/scheme), and other descriptive information about the data content (e.g., critical data elements or CDEs) for each data element across the organization  Dictionary information can often contain one or more of the business, logical, and physical data inventories.</p>
<h4>Object Subtypes (Type = INVENTORY)</h4>
<h5>Technical Inventory (View = TECHNICAL)</h5>
<p>To establish a reference architecture for storing and managing technical inventory information, we define an Attribute as the lowest level of a data management hierarchy, which represents the level at which data is technically named, stored, and managed. An application, on the other hand, is at the top of the Technical system hierarchy. For this document, we propose an arbitrary five-level hierarchy to describe the high-level technology structure. Individual implementations may choose to include any number of levels within the technical inventory and leverage alternative names for these levels.  </p>
<ol start="1">
<li>
<p>
<strong>APPLICATION (MANDATORY)</strong> - An Application (also known as a system) is defined as the highest level of decomposition of a technical inventory of data elements.  e.g CRM</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<strong>COMPONENT </strong>- A component describes a sub-component of an application - ie, Database</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<strong>SCHEMA - </strong>A schema is a logical subdivision of a component, often relating to an individual group of logical tables inside a database = e.g, Customers</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<strong>CONTAINER </strong>- A container  is defined as a logical grouping of related attributes, all associated with an individual record - e.g, Table, File etc</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<strong>ATTRIBUTE (MANDATORY) </strong>- An attribute is the lowest level of a technical hierarchy, which represents the point at which data values are stored and managed - e.g, LastName</p>
</li>
</ol>
<h5>Business Inventory (View = BUSINESS)</h5>
<h4>Information Sets</h4>
<p>The inventory data model comprises two Information sets: Inventory Information and Profile Information.</p>
<table data-table-width="1800" data-layout="align-start" ac:local-id="425a413f-d288-4dd6-8516-e7a2be22e305">
<colgroup>
<col />
<col style="width: 242.0px;" />
<col style="width: 278.0px;" />
<col style="width: 271.0px;" />
<col style="width: 489.0px;" />
<col style="width: 140.0px;" />
<col style="width: 380.0px;" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="numberingColumn" />
<th>
<p>
<strong>Applicable Node / Relationship</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Information Set</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Element</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Description</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Policy Ref.</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Example Value(s)</strong>
</p>
</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">1</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>inventoryInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>inventoryFieldType</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>The field type provides the most basic structural definition of the type of data involved, typically based on the underlying technical definition of the data.</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Number</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>String</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Date</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Datetime</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Time</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Blob</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Identifier</p>
</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">2</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>nventoryInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>inventoryIsPrimary</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Is the column a primary key for its structure</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>0 / 1</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">3</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>inventoryInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>inventoryIsNullable</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Is the attribute allowed to be nullable</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>0/1</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">4</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>inventoryInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>inventoryValidation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Any technical validation constraints on the attribute</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<ul>
<li>
<p>char(30)</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>
<code>&quot;^DOC\\d{6,}$&quot;</code>
</p>
</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">5</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>inventoryInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Data Sensitivity Classification</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Data Sensitivity provides information on the official data classification of the information contained in this field based on an organization's data privacy and data security policies.  Depending on organizational policies, there may be multiple classifications of data sensitivity.</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Public</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Customer-PII</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Company-PII</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Restricted</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Confidential</p>
</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">6</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>profileInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>profileDataType</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>Standardised discoverable Data Dictionary List of common field types - ie, First Name, Last Name, Country Code, Zip, etc</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">7</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>profileInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>profilePercentNull</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>0..100%</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">8</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>profileInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>profileUniqueValues</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>0..100%</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">9</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>profileInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>profileMin</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>0</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">10</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>profileInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>profileMax</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>100</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">11</td>
<td>
<p>CONTAINER</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>profileInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>profileRecordType</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>Standardised discoverable data dictionary of common record types  - ie, Person, Address, Legal Enity, Document, etc.</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h3>Data Lineage Metadata</h3>
<p>Describes how data is stored, processed, transferred, and transformed from endpoint to endpoint across systems, enabling end-to-end traceability and impact analysis  In general, data lineage does not describe the business purpose of the data, but rather how it moves and changes throughout the environment  Ideally, data lineage is capable of representing the lowest level of detail, encompassing both external system-to-system endpoint flows and transformations, as well as internal within-application flows/transformations, and then aggregating this information into logical data lineage and system-to-system lineage.</p>
<h4>Object Subtypes (Type = LINEAGE)</h4>
<p>In addition to aid lineage manage, we define an object within the Inventory data model for the <strong>TRANSFORMATION RULE</strong>
</p>
<h4>Information Sets</h4>
<table data-table-width="1800" data-layout="align-start" ac:local-id="b224bd7f-4f02-471a-98b3-0198b36a8d39">
<colgroup>
<col />
<col style="width: 193.0px;" />
<col style="width: 253.0px;" />
<col style="width: 290.0px;" />
<col style="width: 157.0px;" />
<col style="width: 408.0px;" />
<col style="width: 140.0px;" />
<col style="width: 352.0px;" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="numberingColumn" />
<th>
<p>
<strong>Applicable Node / Relationship</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Information Set</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Element</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Cardinality to Node/ Relationship</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Description</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Policy Ref</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Example Value(s)</strong>
</p>
</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">1</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>lineageInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>lineageIsAuthoritative</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>one</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Calculated element for an attribute that indicates if this point in the technical inventory serves as an authoritative source for this data.  ie, is the end of the &ldquo;lineage graph&rdquo;.  </p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<ul>
<li>
<p>0</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>1</p>
</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">2</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>lineageInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>lineageAuthoritativeMethodology</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>one</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Indication of how/why the attributes were designated as &ldquo;authoritative&rdquo; above. </p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<ul>
<li>
<p>Designated Business Element Authoritative Source</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Designated Business Element Authoritative Reporting</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Technical Lineage End</p>
</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">3</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>lineageInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>lineageIsEndPointValue</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>one</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Is at least one business endpoint value tied to this attribute? Calculated element for an attribute that indicates if this point in the technical inventory represents an endpoint value</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<ul>
<li>
<p>0</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>1</p>
</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">4</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>lineageInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>lineageScore</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>one</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Calculated element for an attribute that indicates the percentage complete of the lineage to this point in the &ldquo;lineage graph.&rdquo; See</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>0-100%</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">5</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>lineageInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>lineageForwardDepth</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>one</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Calculated element for an attribute that indicates how far &ldquo;forward&ldquo; from an authoritative source of information this attribute is in the &ldquo;lineage graph&rdquo;</p>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>10</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">6</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>lineageInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>lineageBackwardDepth</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>one</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>Calculated element for an attribute that indicates how far &ldquo;backward&ldquo; from an authoritative source of information this attribute is in the &ldquo;lineage graph&rdquo;. Note this value is specific to an EPV.</p>
<p>
<span style="background-color: rgb(223,216,253);">NEEDS MORE THOUGHT AS FORDEPTH IS VOLATILE BASED ON THE END POINT IN QUESTION AND NOT DETERMINISTIC TO THE NODE </span>
</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>5</p>
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h3>Data Quality Metadata</h3>
<p>Defines the required standards for data accuracy, timeliness, and completeness to ensure business processes operate reliably and regulatory expectations are met. Ideally, data quality is defined at the intersection between a data element and a purpose&mdash;i.e., different data quality standards can apply to the same element depending on the individual purpose.</p>
<p>In addition to aid data quality management, we define an object within the Inventory data model for the <strong>QUALITY RULE</strong>
</p>
<h4>Information Sets</h4>
<table data-table-width="1800" data-layout="align-start" ac:local-id="278d53a9-b8e6-4a21-bdff-251e27e289d6">
<colgroup>
<col />
<col style="width: 218.0px;" />
<col style="width: 260.0px;" />
<col style="width: 298.0px;" />
<col style="width: 176.0px;" />
<col style="width: 460.0px;" />
<col style="width: 380.0px;" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr>
<th class="numberingColumn" />
<th>
<p>
<strong>Applicable Node / Relationship</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Information Set</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Element</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Cardinality to Node/ Relationship</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Description</strong>
</p>
</th>
<th>
<p>
<strong>Example Value(s)</strong>
</p>
</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">1</td>
<td>
<p>ATTRIBUTE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>qualityInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>qualityScoreComplete</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>one</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>0-100%</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">2</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>qualityScoreAccurate</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>one</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>0-100%</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">3</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>qualityScoreConsistant</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>one</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>0-100%</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">4</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>qualityScoreTimely</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>one</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>0-100%</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">5</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>qualityScoreOverall</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>one</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>current average across all types of scores for all rules</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>0-100%</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">6</td>
<td>
<p>QUALITY RULE</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>qualitityInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>qualityRule-PCode</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>many</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>The technical data quality rule <strong>
<u>as pseudo code</u>
</strong>
</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">7</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>qualityRule-ICode</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>many</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>The technical data quality rule is implemented as <strong>code</strong> based on the exact underly tech stack where the attribute exists</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">8</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>qualityRule-Type</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>many</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>The type of data quality test </p>
</td>
<td>
<ul>
<li>
<p>COMPLETNESS</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>ACCURACY</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>CONSISTANT</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>TIMELINESS</p>
</li>
</ul>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">9</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>qualityRule-Score</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>many</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>The current score based on the rules as a percentage</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>0-100%</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">10</td>
<td>
<p>ELEMENT</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>qualitityInformation</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>qualityRule-BCode</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>many</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>The business data quality rule in business terms.</p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">11</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>qualityRule-Type</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>many</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>The type of data quality test </p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td class="numberingColumn">12</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
<td>
<p>qualityRule-Score</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>many</p>
</td>
<td>
<p>The current score based on the rules as a percentage.  </p>
</td>
<td>
<p />
</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p />
</ac:layout-cell>
</ac:layout-section>
</ac:layout>