---
source: https://maoperatingsystem.atlassian.net/spaces/DataModel/pages/202833967/Practical+Data+Data+Governance+At+Scale+-+Data+Inventory+Capability+and+Metadata+Store
confluence_id: 202833967
space: DataModel
version: 35
retrieved: 2026-01-23T12:35:56.755286
format: xhtml
content_hash: ec1c3bb4f9f2af7c6cc2ff1735315b95
macro_structured_macro: 8
macro_image: 0
macro_link: 3
---
About this Documentdata-gov-introThis document forms part of a series proposing a target reference architecture for Data Governance at scale for large organizations with highly fragmented business processes and data flows, such as large financial institutions with multiple business lines, individual product-aligned platforms, and centralized functions like finance and risk management.  This document provides a deeper dive into one of the architectural components within the architecture.  Within each document section we cover Metadata Data Model design and the functional Capability design.  Links to other documents in this series can also be found below.aboutTheData Inventory Capabilityenables the collection and management of the technical and business inventory data elements across the organisation.  Data Inventory information forms the most fundamental information collated about the data storage and flows within the organization, and serves as the basis for all other aspects of data governance, including Lineage and Quality.  Data Inventory capabilities provide the ability to scan and inventory all systemic and business data elements, storing them in the Data Governance Metadata store.While, at a minimum, Data Inventory discovery enables the collection of data elements, additionalData Profilingcapabilities enable the automated classification and description of data based on its content, where available.  NoteData Inventoryingrequires access to the data structure information - i.e., fields and schemas etc,Data profilingrequires access to the underlying data content.Table of ContentsThis section contains information about the contents of this documentnoneData Governance at ScaleThis section contains links to other documents in this seriestrue0true0Data Inventory Capability and Metadata StoreData Inventory Metadata Model DesignNote: Data model designs are included for illustration purposes only and are styled as a graph database with nodes and relationships.  This is provided for convenience only, to define a reference architecture for data governance at scale, and does not necessitate a specific data storage method, database technology, or implementation design.  SeePractical Data: Data Governance at Scale - ConventionsTechnical Data Inventory Model DesignTo establish a reference architecture for storing and managing technical inventory information, we defineAttributeas the lowest level of a data management hierarchy, which represents the level at which data is technical named, stored, and managed.To provide a reference architecture design, we have established an arbitrary five-level hierarchy to describe the high-level technology structure. It is worth noting that individual implementations may choose to include any number of levels within the technical inventory and leverage alternative names for these levels.  The only mandatory level is at an attribute, where all data lineage relationships are defined.Application- An Application (also known as a system) is defined as the highest level of decomposition of a technical inventory of data elements.  e.g CRMComponent- A component describes a sub-component of an application - ie, DatabaseSchema -A schema is a logical subdivision of a component, often relating to an individual group of logical tables inside a database = e.g, CustomersTable- A table is defined as a logical grouping of related attributes, all associated with an individual record - e.g, PersonAttribute- An attribute is the lowest level of a technical hierarchy, which represents the point at which data values are stored and managed - e.g, LastNameBusiness Data Inventory Model DesignIn addition to a technical view of data managed within an environment, a business Data Inventory represents a more business-aligned and logical view of data within an organization.  We define ELEMENT as the lowest level of the business data management hierarchy, which means the level at which he business understands how the data is named and used.To provide a reference architecture design, we established an arbitrary four-level business hierarchy. It is worth noting that individual implementations may choose to include any number of levels within the business inventory and leverage alternative names for these levels.Domain- A domain describes the highest level at which business data is defined and owned, for example, “Institutional Banking.”Class- A class (or object) is the highest level that the business understands a complete data object, for example, “Payments”(Sub)Class- A subclass is the next level of breakdown of a complete business object and represents a logical grouping of business elements.  Some organizations may allow several depths of subclasses. e.g Cash PaymentsElement- An element is the lowest level of the business hierarchy, representing the point at which the data understands the data value, e.g., Transaction Date.The business-logical model connects the technical model at the lowest levels.  Most Business Attributes relate to a single Technical attribute; however, for maximum flexibility, we allow a single business attribute to relate to multiple technical attributes. However, the reverse is not valid, i.e., Trade Date = Trade Date + Trade Datetime, etc.Data Governance Metadata Repository Data ModelnodeType=INVENTORY, nodeSubType=ATTRIBUTEFieldDescription1nodeIDThe unique ID of the node within the repository.2nodeTypeINVENTORY3nodeSubTypeATTRIBUTE4nodeNameThe technical (unique) name of the attribute within the technical hirarchy.5nodeFQNameThe (derived) fully qualified unique name of the node within the technical hierarchy.  Derived from top to bottom. For example, ApplicationName/ComponentName/… SchemaName/TableName/AttributeNamecrm/database/People/person-details/lastname6nodeSpecificationThe additional technical inventory information collected about a node as defined by the operating model.nodeType=INVENTORY, nodeSubType=ELEMENTFieldDescription1nodeIDThe unique ID of the node within the repository.2nodeTypeINVENTORY3nodeSubTypeELEMENT4nodeNameThe individual, business name of the data element within the echo system .5nodeFQNameThe (derived) fully qualified unique name of the node within the technical hierarchy.  Derived from top to bottom. For example, ApplicationName/ComponentName/… SchemaName/TableName/AttributeNamecrm/database/People/person-details/lastname6nodeSpecificationData Inventory CapabilityThe Data Inventory Capability is responsible for collecting the technical and physical inventory of all data elements across the organization.   Given the scale of inventory information, we expect the vast majority of inventory information to be discovered and updated automatically.   We define several sub-components, including:Data Inventory Core Engine- The Data Inventory Core Engine provides the logistical and control framework for individual connections, automatically discovering and maintaining inventory and profiling information within the Data Governance Metadata catalog.Data Inventory ConnectorsData Profiling Connectors.  - Data Profiling Connectors provide the incremental ability to classify and categorise data based on its content.  Data profiling may be implemented as part of a Data Inventory connector or separate, depending on entitlements and architecture.  Data Profiling may occur at a field or record level - ie “this looks like a record about a person and contains PII information”Data Management Portal- In addition to automated Data Inventory and Data Profiling Capabilities, the Data Management Portal enables end users to create and maintain inventory metadata manually.21002026046071994915861Untitled Diagram-1755527461519.drawio44https://maoperatingsystem.atlassian.net/wikiUntitled Diagram-1755527461519.drawio0871571
